DBZ 6408 Add docs on how to extend channels and notification (#4538)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/partials/modules/all-connectors/proc-triggering-an-incremental-snapshot-kafka.adoc

.Procedure using kafka signaling channel

You can send a message to the {link-prefix}:{link-signalling}#debezium-signaling-enabling-kafka-signaling-channel[configured Kafka topic] to add the ad hoc incremental snapshot request to the signaling {data-collection}:

The key of the Kafka message must match the value of the `topic.prefix` connector configuration option.

The value is a JSON object with `type` and `data` fields.

> The signal type is `execute-snapshot` and the `data` field must have the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signal type is `execute-snapshot`, and the `data` field must have the following fields:
```

.Execute snapshot data fields
[cols="2,2,6",options="header"]
|===
|Field | Default | Value

|`type`
|`incremental`

> | The type of the snapshot to be executed. Currently only `incremental` is supported. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The type of the snapshot to be executed. 
Currently {prodname} supports only the `incremental` type.  +
```

See the next section for more details.

|`data-collections`
|_N/A_

> | An array of comma-separated regular expressions that match fully-qualified names of tables to be snapshotted. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An array of comma-separated regular expressions that match the fully-qualified names of tables to include in the snapshot. +
```

> The format of the names is the same as for xref:#{context}-property-signal-data-collection[signal.data.collection] configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specify the names by using the same format as is required for the xref:{context}-property-signal-data-collection[signal.data.collection] configuration option.
```

|`additional-condition`
|_N/A_

> | An optional string, which specifies a condition based on the column(s) of the {data-collection}(s), to capture a
> subset of the contents of the {data-collection}(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| An optional string that specifies a condition that the connector evaluates to designate a subset of columns to include in a snapshot.
```

|===

An example of the execute-snapshot Kafka message:

----
Key = `test_connector`

Value = `{"type":"execute-snapshot","data": {"data-collections": ["schema1.table1", "schema1.table2"], "type": "INCREMENTAL"}}`
----

==== Ad hoc incremental snapshots with additional-condition

> * `additional-condition` is used to select a subset of a {data-collection}'s content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prodname} uses the `additional-condition` field to select a subset of a {data-collection}'s content.
```

> * To give an analogy how `additional-condition` is used:
> 
> ** For a snapshot, the SQL query executed behind the scenes is something like:
> +
> SELECT * FROM _<tableName>_ ....
> 
> ** For a snapshot with a `additional-condition`, the `additional-condition` is appended to the SQL query, something like:
> +
> SELECT * FROM _<tableName>_ WHERE _<additional-condition>_ ....
> 
> * Suppose there is a `products` {data-collection} with columns `id` (primary key), `color` and `brand`.
> +
> To snapshot just the content of the `products` {data-collection} where `color=blue`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, when {prodname} runs a snapshot, it runs a SQL query such as:

`SELECT * FROM _<tableName>_ ....`

When the snapshot request includes an `additional-condition`, the `additional-condition` is appended to the SQL query, for example:

`SELECT * FROM _<tableName>_ WHERE _<additional-condition>_ ....`

For example, given a `products` {data-collection} with the columns `id` (primary key), `color`, and `brand`, if you want a snapshot to include only content for which `color=blue`, when you request the snapshot, you could append an `additional-condition` statement to filter the content:
```

> +
> ----
> Key = `test_connector`
> 
> Value = `{"type":"execute-snapshot","data": {"data-collections": ["schema1.products"], "type": "INCREMENTAL", "additional-condition":"color=blue"}}`
> ----
> 
> * `additional-condition` can be used to pass condition based on multiple columns.
> Using the same `products` {data-collection}, to snapshot content of the `products` {data-collection} where `color=blue` and `brand=foo`
> +
> ----
> Key = `test_connector`
> 
> Value = `{"type":"execute-snapshot","data": {"data-collections": ["schema1.products"], "type": "INCREMENTAL", "additional-condition":"color=blue AND brand=foo"}}`
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
Key = `test_connector`

Value = `{"type":"execute-snapshot","data": {"data-collections": ["schema1.products"], "type": "INCREMENTAL", "additional-condition":"color=blue"}}`
----

You can use the `additional-condition` statement to pass conditions based on multiple columns.
For example, using the same `products` {data-collection} as in the previous example, if you want a snapshot to include only the content from the `products` {data-collection} for which `color=blue`, and `brand=MyBrand`, you could send the following request:

----
Key = `test_connector`

Value = `{"type":"execute-snapshot","data": {"data-collections": ["schema1.products"], "type": "INCREMENTAL", "additional-condition":"color=blue AND brand=MyBrand"}}`
----
```
